= Tutorials =

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RvGsbhp3kWE"/>

== specificationfiles ==
Specificationfiles are YAML-files for nodes, nodelets or dynamic reconfigure nodes containing information about the type, the package, publications, subscriptions, services and parameters.
These files are very usefull but not mandatory. You can use the rxDeveloper without specificationfiles, but it is more comfortable with them.

=== where are they used ===
rxDeveloper uses specification files to support the user in many ways:
  # New node tags can be created by dragging and dropping
  # If you want to remap topics, a list of possible topics shows up
    * remap arrows are automatically created when loading a launchfile
  # If you add a private parameter to a node, a list of possible parameters shows up (with default values)
    * the valus for parameters with ranges get checked for out-of-range problems 


=== how to create files ===
A specificationfile looks like [specexample this].
The *type* is the name of a node, *package* is the package the node belongs to. Every specificationfile must contain these two lines.
Subscriptions, publications, services and parameters are optional, but should be entered for a better functionality.

rxDeveloper has a specfile-editor. You can edit existing specfiles by right-clicking them in the "Available Nodes/Nodelets"-list and selecting "view/edit specfile". The editor is also launched if you create a new specfile in the "Component Creator"-tab


== creating a launchfile ==
..comming soon.

== editing a launchfile ==
..comming soon.

== components / a place for includefiles ==
..comming soon.

== package and file creation ==
..comming soon.